Simple Todo Application with Laravel REST API

This is a simple Todo application built using Laravel v8 and REST API. Follow the instructions below to run this project on your local machine.

Instructions
1. Clone the repository using the command git clone https://github.com/ashik035/laravel_api.git.

2. Run the following commands to install the project dependencies:

 
composer update
npm i && npm run dev

3. Rename the .env.example file to .env.

4. Run the following command to start the Laravel development server:

 
php artisan serve
5. Update the database name in the .env file and run the migrations using the following command:
 
 
php artisan migrate

6. Add the following variables to your .env file:
 
PASSPORT_PERSONAL_ACCESS_CLIENT_ID=1
PASSPORT_PERSONAL_ACCESS_CLIENT_SECRET=
PASSPORT_PASSWORD_CLIENT_ID=2
PASSPORT_PASSWORD_CLIENT_SECRET=

7. Run the following command to install the Passport authentication package:
 
php artisan passport:install

8. Update the PASSPORT_PERSONAL_ACCESS_CLIENT_SECRET and PASSPORT_PASSWORD_CLIENT_SECRET variables in the .env file with the values generated by the previous command.

9. Run the following command to clear the cached files:

 
php artisan optimize:clear

10. Import the file called postman from the root directory of the project to your Postman app and start playing with the API.

Note: After running php artisan migrate, you need to run php artisan passport:install and update PASSPORT_PERSONAL_ACCESS_CLIENT_SECRET and PASSPORT_PASSWORD_CLIENT_SECRET in the .env file every time.

Happy coding!
